{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri-10760\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Where sIOP failures show the result of failing semantic interoperability, sIOP faults refer to the underlying causes for these failures to occur. Fundamentally, these causes are situated in **Semantic heterogeneity**, that, according to [@Scheider:2012tj] \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93occurs when semantic interpretations of user and provider are not compatible with each other\u8221\'94. There are many reasons why semantic interpretations can be incompatible with each other, not at the least because their differences indeed are implied. Distinct perspectives on the same reality, each of them equally valid in their own right, will continue to exist. Therefore, we consider semantic heterogeneity a feature as opposed to a bug that should be resolved. We take the philosophical *subjectivistic* stance that semantics *is* heterogeneous, and that one single truth does *not* exist. Its pragmatic consequence is that semantic interoperability cannot be realised by the definition of one single \u8220\'93universal\u8221\'94 standard. We allow for the occurrence of semantic heterogeneity, and instead, we want to be able to differentiate between intended and unintended semantic variations.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This section presents an as comprehensive as possible list of faults that are foundational to the emergence of semantic variations. Refer to \\cref\{table:x-ref-failures-faults\} for an overview of how these semantic faults introduce the previously described semantic problems.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- Start: gebruik van scriptsize als smerige hack om de tabel binnen 1 portrait paginabreedte te krijgen -->}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\scriptsize  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 |    | \\rot\{Autopilot test\} | \\rot\{Account deletion\} | \\rot\{Twin identification\} | \\rot\{Space shuttle inversion\} | \\rot\{Mars climate orbiter\} | \\rot\{Insulin pens versus vials\} | \\rot\{Endeavor mission\} | \\rot\{Daylight saving time\} | \\rot\{Undetected hole in ozon layer\} | \\rot\{Patriot Missile bug\} | \\rot\{Ariane 5 disaster\} | \\rot\{Sea level reference\} | \\rot\{Y2K solution: month 13\} | \\rot\{NORAD missile warning failure\} |  \\rot\{Divide by zero - ready\} |}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 |----------------------------------:|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Different worlds                  | \\OK | (1) | (1) |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Different circumstances           |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Different conventions             | \\OK |     |     | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK |     |     |     | \\OK | \\OK | (3) |     | \\OK |     | }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Distinct semantic grounding       |     | \\OK | \\OK |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     |     | }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Varying use of datafield          |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     | (3) |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Term overloading                  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     | (6) |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Concept overloading               |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Temporal scalability              |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | (2) |     |     |     |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Categorisation variety            |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     | }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Semantic granularity variety      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Low representational homomorphism |     | \\OK |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     | (4) | \\OK |     |     | }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Representation differences        |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     |     | \\OK | \\OK |     | \\OK |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Lacking semantic provenance       |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | (2) |     |     |     |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Varying semantic intelligibility  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Low semantic precision            |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Low semantic veracity             |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Varying data characteristics      |     |     |     | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK | \\OK |     |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Low data quality                  |     |     |     |     |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     |     |     | }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://335C77D5-7C81-47D3-8E68-3DCBFC653027"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (5)}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  | \\OK |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 | Varying data identity             |     |     | \\OK |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 |  kolomnummer                      |     |     |     |     |  5  |     |     |     |     | 10  |     |     |     |     |  15 |  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0    : \\label\{table:x-ref-failures-faults\}Cross-reference between the examples of the semantic failures from the previous appendix (as columns) and the semantic variations that might unintentionally occur (as rows), representing the semantic faults. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Notes to the tabel:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Difference in \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Weltanschauung\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. The sIOP issue did not occur due to temporal scalability, but after the issue occurred the definition of the concept \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91anthropogenic ozone depletion\u8217\'92 was altered^[As a result, without semantic provenance in place the interpretation of \u8216\'91old\u8217\'92 data, i.e., recorded before October 1995, would suffer from sIOP due to temporal scalability.]. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. In the description of this case it is not revealed how the connected systems and applications would interpret 13 months in one year; we can however assume that special precautions had to be made to prevent out-of-bound errors. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. This shows a typical example for construct redundancy, i.e., two ways to represent the first of January, 2000.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5. The data in this case referred to a complete different UoD than intended by the data producer, e.g., low data }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://67F1F9D4-7658-4E73-B04E-C08FC02C9F17"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 consistency}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6. The use of zero in this case to represent \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91no data\u8217\'92 is a typical example of term overloading.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\normalsize  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- Eind: smerige hack om de tabel binnen 1 portrait paginabreedte te krijgen -->}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We will explain the semantic faults in the following subsections.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}