{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Accession Number:   S0330}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Published:          Monday, November 6, 2017}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Last Updated:       Thursday, November 9, 2017}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ECRI Institute Recommends Configuring Patient Scales to Kilogram-Only Format to Reduce Weight-Based Medication Errors [ECRI Exclusive User Experience Network]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 UMDNS Device Term(s):}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Scales, Infant [13462];}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Scales, Infant, Warmer/Incubator [18463];}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Scales, Patient [18455];}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Scales, Patient, Bedside [18459];}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *Product Identifier:* Patient Scales that can switch from Pounds (lb) to Kilograms (kg) [Capital Equipment]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *Geographic Regions:* Worldwide}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *Problem:*}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Confusion during use of patient scales that have the ability to display (or toggle) weights in both kg and lb may lead to weight-based medication errors, especially in pediatric patients.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * For instance, 100 kg and 100 lb are both reasonable weights; the clinician needs to be alert that the patient actually looks like 220 lb (100 kg) and not 100 lb.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. This problem may also result in inaccurate logging of patient weight.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Manufacturers' Corrective Action/Recommendations:**}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *These recommendations reflect information from several patient scale manufacturers:*}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * When using a standalone scale, verify the setting, sometimes indicated by the illuminated LED, before taking the patient's weight. Biomedical engineering can typically change the display to kg-only configuration.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Refer to the Instructions for Use (IFU) for instructions on configuring the scale to lb or kg.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **ECRI Recommendations:**}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *Biomedical/clinical engineering:*}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Consult with clinicians and determine what clinical policies and organizational standards exist for units of measurement.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Because medication dosing is based on the metric system, configure scales to display weight in kg-only if your facility utilizes patient scales with the kg/lb toggle feature.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     1. Refer to the manufacturer's IFU for instruction on locking the display.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     1. To obtain the necessary configuration steps, contact the manufacturer.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Facilities considering purchasing patient scales should do the following:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     1. Request that the manufacturer ship patient scales with kg as a factory default.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     1. Consider purchasing a scale offering a kg-only measurement unit.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Preventive maintenance should include mandatory checks to ensure that scales remain locked into kg.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. As scales that measure in lb are replaced, facilities should transition to metric-only scales.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *Nursing:*}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * For patient scales integrated with an Electronic Medical Record (EMR):}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Ensure that the measurement, recording, and displaying of weight is in kg in the EMR.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * If logged weight in the EMR is in the lb section, ensure that the correct weight is displayed in the kg section.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * If the EMR is configured to accept weight in lb, work with your CE/IT department to configure EMRs to accept weight entries in kg.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Provide family members with a weight conversion chart to inform them about the patient's weight in lb.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Background:**}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * ECRI members report that patients are receiving incorrect dosages because of the lb/kg disparity between patient scales and EMRs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Patient's weight provides vital information for detecting fluid retention, calculating proper medication dosages, and screening for malnutrition.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Patient scales include the following:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Direct patient care devices (e.g., stand-on scales)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Integrated patient care devices (e.g., scales built into hospital beds, ceiling mounted in-room lifts, or infant incubators}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Nondirect patient care devices (e.g., diaper scales, organ scales)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Medication dosage prescriptions for the pediatric population, emergency medications, chemotherapy, and high-alert drugs are usually weight-dependent and based on the metric system.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * One possible strategy to consider when making a shift to kg-only scales could be to implement a hierarchical approach, such as the following (suggested by an ECRI member):}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Action:\tab Timeline:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 No further purchases of lb-only scales\tab Within 6 months}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Assess and reprogram/replace noncompliant pediatric scales\tab Within 15 months}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Assess and reprogram/replace noncompliant adult scales\tab Within 27 months}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Emergency Nurses Association (ENA), American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP), and ECRI Institute have promoted the sole use of the metric system to prevent medication errors when prescribing or administering medications.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * With newer scales that integrate with a facility's EMR, weight readings are automatically added to a patient's record, potentially reducing the risk of transcription error on date or weight.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Manufacturers' Perspectives or Comments:**}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     Some integrated bed scale manufacturers have designed the change from lb to kg, or kg to lb, as a multi-step process to prevent accidental changes to the integrated bed scale settings.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     Scale models can be purchased with a kg-only display.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **References:**}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Emergency Nurse's Association. ENA Position Statement, October 2015. Available from Internet: Click here.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Institute for Safe Medication Practices. ISMP quarterly action agenda, October-December 2011. Available from Internet: Click here.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Institute for Safe Medication Practice (ISMP). 2016-2017 Targeted Medication Safety Best Practices for Hospitals. Available from Internet: Click here.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * ECRI Institute. Top 10 patient safety concerns for healthcare organizations: 2016. Healthcare Risk Control 2016 Apr 13. Available from Internet: Click here.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Source: [@ECRIInstitute2017].}}