{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 During Operation Desert Shield, the US military deployed the Patriot Missile System as a defence against aircraft and missiles \endash  in this case Iraqi Al Hussein (SCUD) missiles. The tracking software for the Patriot missile uses the velocity of its target and the current time to predict where the target will be from one instant to another. Since various targets may travel at speeds of up to MACH 5, these calculations need to be very accurate. At the time, there was a bug in the targeting software \endash  which meant that over time, the internal clock would \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91drift\u8217\'92 (much like any clock) further and further from accurate time the longer the system was left running. The bug was actually already known about and was simply fixed by regularly rebooting the system, and thereby resetting the system clock. Unfortunately, those in charge didn\u8217\'92t clearly understand how \u8216\'91regularly\u8217\'92 they should reboot the system, and it was left running for 100 hours. When an Iraqi missile was launched, targeting a US airfield in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, it was detected by the Patriot missile system. However, by this point, the internal clock had drifted out by 0.34 of a second, so when it tried to calculate where the missile would be next, it was looking at an area of the sky over half a kilometer away from missiles true location. It promptly assumed there was no enemy missile after all and cancelled the interception. The missile carried on to its destination where it killed 28 soldiers and injured a further 98.\line \line Source: http://listverse.com/2012/12/24/10-seriously-epic-computer-software-bugs/}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 * Failure in sIOP}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Failure between }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 : Internal clock <-> targeting software}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 * Fault: }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Semantic accuracy; targeting software assumed stable accuracy of internal clock }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}