{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Launched in 1978, NASA\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS) produced profiles of how thick or thin the ozone was at different altitudes and locations. Ironically, it wasn't until October 1985 that a British team of scientists found a significant reduction in ozone over Halley Bay, Antarctica. Using a ground-based Dobson ozone spectrophotometer, the team found that the amount of stratospheric ozone over Halley Bay was about 40 percent less than it had been the previous year. Their finding stunned the science community because they were expecting anthropogenic ozone depletion to occur first at upper levels in the stratosphere (30 to 50 km) and so they anticipated that the initial signal of depletion in a total column of ozone would be weak. NASA researchers hastily reviewed their TOMS data and found that it too had detected a dramatic loss of ozone over all of Antarctica. Why hadn't they discovered the phenomenon earlier? Unfortunately, the TOMS data analysis software had been programmed to flag and set aside data points that deviated greatly from expected measurements and so the initial measurements that should have set off alarms were simply overlooked. In short, the TOMS team failed to detect the ozone depletion years earlier because it was much more severe than scientists expected.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Source: http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/RemoteSensingAtmosphere/remote_sensing5.php}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 * Failure in sIOP}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Failure between }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 : measurement system <-> TOMS data analysis}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 * Fault: }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Categorisation variety due to wrong assumption in TOMS, although the Semantic veracity of the measurement system was high }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}