{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri-3288\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ---}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ri-12421\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 title:  'm-Jali in healthcare'  }
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ri-12421\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 subtitle: 'Benchmark report'  }
\par\pard\plain \ri-3288\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 author: Paul Brandt  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 affiliation: TNO  }
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ri-12421\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 version:    }
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ri-12421\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 category: Confidential  }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ack: }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- Remove the comment markers to include an acknowledgement, e.g., }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 This work was supported by the EC, through the RECAP project, part of the Interreg IVB NWE Programme. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 --> }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1    }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 tags: <!-- tagword, or a descriptive tag, each tag separated by comma}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -->  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 bibliography: src/bib/bibliography.bib  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 csl: templates/basic-reference-style.csl  }
\par\pard\plain \ri-8940\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 abstract: |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     *Objective*: This report describes the results of a comparative study that has been conducted about m-Jali and two similar products, i.e., *Dimagi* and *Magpi* (formally known as Data Dyne).  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     *Method*: By establishing the main ICT concerns for the purpose of m-Jali, a set of reference criteria has been defined. We set weight-factors to reflect the urgency and necessity of each criterion. For each software product, desk research has been conducted to gather the data for each of the criteria. Where no data could be found, this fact has been noted and an educated guess has been taken. For each criterion, its data for a specific product has either been fit on a normalised scale or rating, or used as-is, depending on the nature of the data. Finally, the weighed sum over all criteria have been calculated for each product.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     *Result*: to be determined  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     *Discussion*: to be done  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     *Conclusion*: to be determined  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     }
\par\pard\plain \ri-3288\sa240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ...}}