{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In \\cref\{semantics-in-software\}, we defend the central disposition of reciprocity between data and data processing, emerging as an Atomic Semantic Monolith (ASM), with the explicit purpose to guarantee the coherence between the data (semantic meaning) and their processing code (pragmatic meaning). \\Cref\{dp:srp\} phrases the need to exchange semantic meaning between collaborating agents. Why it is useless to exchange the complete ASM in order to establish sIOP, is left as an exercise to the reader[^\AppleTypeServicesU1 Exercise\AppleTypeServicesU0 ]. Data exchange implies the DSP to tear down the ASM and separate the semantic meaning from its pragmatic meaning. Since data comprehension precedes its faithful use, the DSC must establish a valid reciprocity between the DSP\'92s semantic meaning with its own pragmatic meaning, e.g., when exchanging temperature, assure that the DSP\'92s semantic meaning and the DSC\'92s pragmatic meaning apply identical scales and units. Data exchange, thus, implies the DSC to receive semantic meaning only, losing every guarantee that reciprocity between the DSP\'92s data and the DSC\'92s data processing is coherent. Unless it can be guaranteed that this reciprocity is as coherent as necessary for a faithful comprehension by the DSC, it is impossible to establish sIOP without emergence of phantom semantics. We consider maintaining semantic coherence a necessary condition for sIOP to emerge, and formulate the third concern about sIOP as follows.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \AppleTypeServicesU1 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 \\begin\{mmconcern\}[Semantic coherence]\\label\{cncrn:re-establish-coherence\}\AppleTypeServicesU0 \
The reciprocity between data and their processing is the carrier of RWS. By the nature of data exchange, this reciprocity is broken for the DSC on receipt of the data. Without semantic coherence, no faithful comprehension of the DSP\'92s semantic meaning can occur; absence of faithful comprehension by the DSC impedes its capability to establish sIOP with the DSP.\AppleTypeServicesU1 \
\\end\{\AppleTypeServicesU0 mmconcern\AppleTypeServicesU1 \}\AppleTypeServicesU0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 \
When the DSC achieves semantic coherence with the DSP\'92s data, the FAIR conditions (a) and (b) are fulfilled, and condition (d) can commence by its telic behaviour. We note that \\cref\{
\fs22 \AppleTypeServicesU1 cncrn:re-establish-coherence\}
\fs24 \AppleTypeServicesU0  applies to both the data it receives from the DSP as to the data that the DSC can infer from them.\
\
<!-- page additions -->\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \AppleTypeServicesU1 [^Exercise]: Solution: \\newline \\rotatebox\{180\}\{\\parbox[b]\{\\linewidth\}\{Communicating the semantic monolith implies that next to the semantic meaning, the pragmatic meaning is exchanged as well. Identical pragmatic meaning can only produce identical results, which would defy the whole point of collaboration.\}\}\
}