{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Access-and-play sIOP is the ultimate objective: ideally, sIOP between software agents can be achieved instantaneously and mechanically, viz without human intervention, particularly for unforeseen collaborations. Despite its conflict with our position that computers lack the capability for genuine understanding, its business benefits are too significant not to continue to strive for understanding. Still, the purpose of comprehension is to reconcile semantic differences, which remains a distinct concern. Its resolution will depend on the position that is taken on comprehension, and from our position its resolution requires human effort to understand and resolve the semantic differences between the interoperating agents. The architectural issue then becomes where to position the dependency on the human when considering \\cref\{\AppleTypeServicesU1 cncrn:re-establish-coherence,
\fs22 cncrn:scalability
\fs24 \}, in order to minimise her effort\AppleTypeServicesU0 . The three possible approaches for the DSC about this task are: \
\
i. To depend on semantic meaning that is solidified in representation: a semantic standard. This reflects the current approach to sIOP where the human tasks are to create the standard first, and then to align the semantic meaning of both the DSP and DSC to it;\
ii. To re-establish semantic coherence by modifying the DSC\'92s own pragmatic meaning such that it can operate in a valid way on the external (DSP\'92s) semantic meaning; or \
iii. To re-establish semantic coherence by modifying the external (DSP\'92s) semantic meaning such that it can be operated on by the DSC\'92s existing pragmatic meaning in a manner faithful to the current state of affairs, denoted 
\f1 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f2\i semantic mediation
\f1\i0 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f0  [@Renner1996]. \
\
We already indicated that the first approach defies semantic heterogeneity, which, by token of \\cref\{
\fs22 \AppleTypeServicesU1 cncrn:semantic-heterogeneity
\fs24 \AppleTypeServicesU0 \}, is a fundamental requirement. The second approach allows external definitions to influence internal workings. This clearly breaks one of the fundamental principles of software engineering, *low coupling, high cohesion* [e.g., @Hitz1995], which complicates or even impedes solutions addressing \\cref
\fs22 \AppleTypeServicesU1 \{cncrn:scalability\}
\fs24 \AppleTypeServicesU0  and should be considered untenable for \\cref
\fs22 \AppleTypeServicesU1 \{cncrn:re-establish-coherence\}
\fs24 \AppleTypeServicesU0 . The last approach does not impair any of these or other concerns. It *does* assume the semantic variations to be resolvable and representable. Still, re-establishing reciprocity now becomes a threefold task: First, to reconcile all semantic differences that occur between the semantic meanings established by the DSP and DSC about their shared DoA. Second, to represent that reconciliation in a formal language that is sufficiently expressive and allows for mechanical transcription of the data representation provided by the DSP to the data representation applied by the DSC, without inducing phantom semantics. Third, to make the former two tasks as efficient and mechanically supported as possible. \
\
}