{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The FAIR data principles (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reuse)[^fair] [@Wilkinson2016] \'93enable the agent -to a degree dependent on the amount of detail provided\'97 to have the capacity, when faced with a digital object never encountered before, to: a) identify the type of object (with respect to both structure and intent), b) determine if it is useful within the context of the agent\'92s current task (\'85), c) determine if it is usable, with respect to license, consent, or other accessibility or use constraints, and d) take appropriate action, in much the same manner that a human would. (\'85) [The] ultimate machine-actionability occurs when a machine can make a useful decision regarding data that it has not encountered before.\'94. These resonate with our view on sIOP, although we are mostly concerned with aspect (a) and (d), whereas we assume that (b) is granted already by the mere fact of communication. Despite its relevance to interoperability in general we consider aspect (c) out of scope for sIOP. We consider aspect (d) not a matter of sIOP per s\'e9 but one that addresses the design of a single software agent; this has already been addressed in [@Brandt2021a, DP 2] where we have made a clear separation between semantic comprehension at the one hand, and the behaviour of the software agent that is based on the outcome of that comprehension at the other. Having scoped the FAIR principles in this way, the main concern for sIOP could be derived as to identify the type of object that the exchanged data belongs to. We further elaborate on this by putting it in the context of our view on semantics and sIOP, as follows.\
\
Semantic interoperability is about at least two software agents, in their roles as DP and DC, that share a particular domain of application and exchange data that represent a certain state of affairs from that shared reality. Subsequent to the exchange, the data will be processed by the receiving DC. It stands to reason that understanding the data precedes their faithful use, as indicated by principle (a). However, we insist that software semantics are necessarily reduced to the reciprocity that exists between data and their processing code in the atomic semantic monolith, and that the ASM has been established with the explicit purpose to guarantee the coherence between the data and their processing code [@Brandt2021a]. Unfortunately, by exchanging data these data are necessarily separated from the ASM they belong to. (Why it is useless to exchange the complete semantic monolith in order to establish sIOP, is left as an exercises to the reader ^[Answer: \\rotatebox\{180\}\{Communicating the semantic monolith, although possible, results in a too narrow solution towards sIOP because this would require each agent to have an exactly equal perspective on reality, and to represent this in the exact same way. Although possible, this will rarely be the case.\}].) The consequence on aspect (a) of exchanging the semantic meaning (data) only, therefore, is twofold: it loses its coherence with its original pragmatic meaning, and, the necessity emerges for establishing a new reciprocity with the pragmatic meaning that belongs to the DC. Unless it can be guaranteed that this new emerging reciprocity is as coherent as it needs to be, sIOP cannot emerge from the data exchange without emergence of phantom semantics. With this in mind, we reformulate FAIR principle (a) as our third concern about sIOP:\
\
* *concern 3*: subsequent to data exchange, the DC must have the capability to re-establish coherence between the external (DP\'92s) semantic meaning and its own internal pragmatic meaning, and assure that the reciprocity between DP\'92s data and DC\'92s code remains truthful to the state of affairs in reality.\
\
>Note: Although they share the same semantic meaning, the resulting semantic monolith of the DC must be allowed to differ from the DP\'92s semantic monolith. For example, by exchanging a heartbeat both agents share the semantic meaning about the number of beats per second, however the pragmatic meaning can vary between an indication of health for an health-care application and an indication of performance potential in a sports application. \
\
We discern the following subconcerns:\
\
* *concern 3.1*: Re-establishing coherence by the DC applies to both the data it receives from the DP as to the data that the DC can infer from them;\
* *concern 3.2*: Pursuing sIOP involves to ensure that the ASM\'92s from both agents remain independent from each other, viz. establishing a semantical loose coupling between both agents;\
* *concern 3.3*: Access-and-play sIOP is the ultimate objective: ideally, sIOP between agents can be achieved instantaneously, also for unforeseen collaborations. Despite its conflict with our position that software is incapable of genuine understanding, turning a human-in-the-loop a necessary condition for sIOP, its business benefits are too significant not to continue to strive for it;\
* *concern 3.4*: The primary concern to re-establish coherence with DP\'92s data is considered a recurring task when sIOP is to allow for semantic evolution which demands for continued maintainability and governance of sIOP;\
\
Additionally, accepting semantic heterogeneity brings about an issue of scalability, since semantics won\'92t be centrally coordinated anymore resulting in semantic definitions that are distributed all over the place, see \\cref\{dp:shf\}. We formulate this as the fourth concern about sIOP:\
\
* *concern 4*: sIOP requires to allow for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://48E963AF-70FA-4FAE-83EC-18DBFF902121"}}{\fldrslt scalable semantics}}.\
\
We conclude that from these concerns, only 3.1 (re-establish reciprocity) and 3.3 (access-and-play) are concerned with genuine understanding of semantics and calls for a human-in-the-loop. The others are equally important in order to achieve sIOP, however, \'93only\'94 refer to engineering challenges. We address concerns 3.1 and 3.3 in the next section, and then investigate the consequences of concerns 3.2, 3.3 and 4 in its subsequent section.   \
\
\
<!-- page additions -->\
\
[^fair]: FAIR Principles, https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/, accessed Jan 2021\
\
}