{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Several works exist that focus on logical foundations of sIOP in search for automatic matching and merging of ontologies [@Euzenat:2013ie;@Benedikt2018a;@Scharffe2014], or for automatic detection and reconciliation of semantic inconsistencies between ontologies [@Fahad2012;@Diggelen:2007vd]. These works lay at the heart of ontology reconciliation, however, their embedding in the larger software environment is not addressed or only assumed at best. \
\
In [@Horsch2020] the authors discuss the ongoing work on establishing a European Virtual Marketplace Framework, into which diverse platforms can be integrated. It addresses common challenges that arise when marketplace-level domain ontologies are combined with a top-level ontology like the European Materials and Modelling Ontology (EMMO) by ontology alignment. A multi-tier system of ontologies is established with the EMMO at the top and all others subsumed by it. The authors show that with such a setup the top-level ontology is crucial in the creation of the alignments between the (domain) ontologies that are subsumed by it. This shows support to our conclusion that semantic compatibility can be considered foundational to semantic interoperability. \
\
The authors of \\cite\{Yang2017\} remind us of three limitations of the ontology alignment approach; firstly, it cannot guarantee complete semantic interoperability for situations where terms are not aligned; secondly, creating alignments are time consuming; thirdly, ontologies are often local and their point-to-point alignments limits the semantic consistency on a more global scheme. While we do not deny any of these we consider that (i) lacuna in alignments are to be identified before they can be corrected, and \\cref\{dp:spp\} can support both; (ii) their creation, despite ontology matching algorithms and other automation, will take time but this time will be spent anyway, if not for alignments then for domain-centric standard representations; besides, constraining alignments to local semantics only allows for semantic quality and independence that are impossible to achieve with a global semantic standard; (iii) local applications are not seeking for global interoperability but business collaboration interoperability only.}