{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In order to avoid the Y2K problem, the programmers had decided to give 1999 13 months instead of the usual 12. This way, they decided, they could buy time to resolve any unforeseen issue. Coincidently, just before the New Year's, they installed a time server in order to prevent there being a problem when the system time of the computers was compared with the normal time which is broadcast in Germany on a special frequency. They missed one little thing: leading zeros. The operating system delivered dates as 1:12:99 while the time server used 01:12:99 to indicate the first day of the month. Since the time server was not installed until after the 10th of December, this discrepancy wasn't noticed until midnight that the clock struck \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93month 13\u8221\'94, or rather 1:13:99 instead of 01:13:99. This caused another program to cough about a date discrepancy. The people overseeing the systems subsequently tried to reboot the system [this at just past midnight on the first of January! -dww]. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Het vervolg is interessant vanuit het perspectief van de consequenties, maar niet meer relevant voor sIOP: But it wouldn't reboot, because two of the computers were not configured properly. If they had ignored the error message, everything would have been okay! Now, while the system was trying to reboot, the folks in the fire trucks got antsy: They used to get acknowledgements for their location reports that they send regularly to indicate their whereabouts. But not this time, thus they just pushed all the buttons, to see if the machine was dead. This flooded the system additionally with repeated status messages. Finally, the network boards come into play. They had been named as the culprits in the first round of finger-pointing. They, too, had just been installed, and were misconfigured. They couldn't handle the traffic and began producing random errors. This confused the part of the system that keeps track of where the equipment currently is located, and then IT died.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Source: http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/20.93.html#subj6}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 * Failure in sIOP}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Failure between }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 : local time server <-> local systems}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 * Fault: data discrepancy as result of representation error}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1}