{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Courier New;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mathematical formulae are not possible in MMD. To that end, apply LateX rules and include appropriate libraries in the latex template, see also https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Mathematics. The suggestions below are not MMD cheats but LateX cheats instead.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\usepackage\{mathtools\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mathmode: }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Inline: TEXT }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 encompassed with }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \\( ... \\)}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 * Paragraph: }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If you are typing text normally, you are said to be in }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 text mode}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , but while you are typing within one of those mathematical environments, you are said to be in }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 math mode}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that has some differences compared to the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 text mode}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 :}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	1.	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Most spaces and line breaks do not have any significance, as all spaces are either derived logically from the mathematical expressions, or have to be specified with special commands such as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \\quad}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	2.	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Empty lines are not allowed. Only one paragraph per formula.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	3.	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Each letter is considered to be the name of a variable and will be typeset as such. If you want to typeset normal text within a formula (normal upright font and normal spacing) then you have to enter the text using }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Mathematics#Adding_text_to_equations"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 dedicated commands.}}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	4.	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The caret (^) character is used to raise something (superscript), and the underscore (_) is for lowering (subscript). If more than one expression is raised or lowered, they should be grouped using curly braces (\{ and \}).}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 $\\mathpzc\{ALC\}$}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1\i0 Bullits and numbered lists}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ri-10760\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Bullit}{\f0\fs24\b1  list}{\f0\fs24\b1 s}
\par\pard\plain \tx1899\ri-10760\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The bullets need not be flush with the left margin; they may be indented one, two, or three spaces. The bullet must be followed by whitespace, and preceded by a blank line. A list item may contain multiple paragraphs and other block-level content. However, subsequent paragraphs must be preceded by a blank line and indented four spaces or a tab. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   * Fruits}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     Continued paragraph belonging to Fruits.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 List items may include other lists. In this case the preceding blank line is optional. The nested list must be indented four spaces or one tab:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 * fruits}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0     + apples}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0         - macintosh}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0         - red delicious}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 Number lists}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b1\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Ordered lists work just like bulleted lists, except that the items begin with enumerators (numbers themselves are ignored) rather than bullets:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 2. First item}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 1. Second item}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 21. Third item}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Autonumbers}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 (@one)  My first example will be numbered (1).}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 (@)  My second example will be numbered (2).}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Explanation of example (@one).}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 (@)  My third example will be numbered (3).}}
}
