{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Concept overloading** [@Janowicz:2012tk] expresses the fact that a conceptualisation is unsound: there is and will be more than one way to conceptualise reality, all of which might be considered correct. For instance, a street is a connection from A to B from the view point of transportation science, while it is a disruptive separation that cuts a habitat into segments from the view point of ecology and conservation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 sensor values can be represented in distinct scale and type, e.g., Fahrenheit versus Kelvin, or multiple distinct but often combined readings can be modelled as one parameter or as a single concept contains multiple values, e.g., blood pressure as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93systolic/diastolic\u8221\'94 string or as a BP container concept with systolic and diastolic attributes. Another example is a strict correlation of multiple parameters into one data item, e.g., speed vs. direction of flow of a river, the latter being identical over 99.9% of its basin except for its estuary. Therefore, direction of the river flow is often implied towards the sea, as opposed to explicitly modelled. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Concept overloading seems very similar to representational homomorphism, especially language excess. However, language excess relates to the semiotic `representation\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 axis whilst concept overloading refers to the semiotic \u8216\'91abstraction\u8217\'92 axis.}}