{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ---}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 title: 'Consolidating semantic interoperability in contemporary architectural paradigms'    }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 subtitle: 'Establishing loosely coupled semantics'     }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 author:  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Paul Brandt  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: Eindhoven University of Technology; Netherlands Organization of Applied Scientific Research TNO, Den Haag, The Netherlands   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Eric Grandry  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: ??}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Marten van Sinderen}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: University of Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Twan Basten  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 category:   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 bibliography: src/bib/CitedByMe-2018_archSIOp.bib  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 csl: templates/my-basic-reference-style.csl  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 abstract: |   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Background:* Access-and-Play semantic interoperability (sIOP) is the next glass ceiling in IT-based business collaboration. Current approaches towards sIOP still rely on conventions on the semantics of the exchanged terms, which can be considered accepted folklore. To break through the ceiling an initial agreement is required on the foundations of semantics and SIOp. Unfortunately, semantics and software are on odds with each other: software can only operate on a token-based machine whereas semantics require an interpretation outside the realm of tokens. This fundamental incompatibility depends for its resolution on the human-in-the-loop. With current artificial intelligence (AI) the fundamental incompatibility cannot be solved. However, the effort of the inevitable human-in-the-loop can be reduced and her position improved. This is a matter of software architecture, and it should address how semantic interoperability can be consolidated by it.       }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Objective:* The objective of our study is to identify and formulate the fundamental demands towards access-and-play interoperability, to derive their supporting architectural principles, and its integration in contemporary architectural paradigms. We provide guidance to the design of an interoperability bridge over the semantic gap between two software agents by maintaining the connection with the semantic bridgeheads of them both.   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Method:* We assume the collaborating agents to have followed the architectural principles on semantics according to our preliminary study [@Brandt2018a]. This results in an explicit representation of an atomic semantic monolith for each of the agents: two semantic bridgeheads. Our approach is based on a (computer assisted) formulation of a formal alignment between them: the spanning between both bridgeheads. Finally, the bridge\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s roadway consists of a generic mediation component that automatically transcribes the exchanged data between the representations from both bridgeheads. Based on this approach, we develop the guiding architectural principles with the purpose of consolidating sIOP in contemporary architectures. We evaluate these principles by designing and formulating an ISO-42010 Architecture Viewpoint and View on sIOP.   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Results:* Semantics in software are the result of a reciprocity between data and the software code that operates on them, resulting in a local semantic monolith [@Brandt2018a]. Data exchange breaks that semantic monolith and hence the aforementioned reciprocity. The main concern of sIOP is to re-establish a valid reciprocity between the internal data processing code from the receiving agent and the external data as received from the producing agent, without extending the semantic monolith from either agents. We show that loosely coupled semantics, semantic alignments and a shared ontological commitment of the applied modelling language can be considered the cornerstone to achieve sIOP. The supporting principles }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://93E7E4C7-F346-473B-8457-7FCEF24C29C9"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 are}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (i) assume responsibility for the semantics of one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s data, (ii) semantic transparency, (iii) semantic separation of concerns, and (iv) a shared ontological commitment. The resulting ISO-42010 Architecture Viewpoint and View on sIOP, including a semantic mediation capability, represents a pattern to consolidate sIOP in contemporary architectural paradigms.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Conclusions:* The major shortcomings in architectural paradigms to account for an access-and-play sIOP are their negligence of a separation of concerns between human-authored alignments and the automated mediation process at the one hand, and establishing the conditions in support of loosely coupled semantics at the other. By their explicit inclusion, we show that access-and-play sIOP can be consolidated in contemporary architectural paradigms.   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0    }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ...}}