{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The mediation pattern has already been described in [@Gamma1994], albeit in the context of object-orientation as opposed to sIOP. It is described as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact\u8221\'94, and it promotes loose coupling \u8220\'93by keeping objects from referring to each other explicitly\u8221\'94 and by enabling you to \u8220\'93vary their interaction independently\u8221\'94. In this way, the mediator turns a many-to-many interaction into a many-to-one interaction, each of which is easier to understand, maintain and evolve. The fundamental idea behind the pattern, viz. trading the complexity of the interactions with the complexity in the mediator, can also be applied on a semantic level, and we formulate the following principle to its effect:}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{mmdp\}[Encapsulate how agents exchange semantic meaning]\\label\{dp:mediation\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When software agents engage in interoperation, encapsulate how the representation of their semantic meaning should be transcribed without inducing phantom semantics.   }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Type of information:\} business, data  \\\\}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Quality attributes:\} semantic interoperability   \\\\}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Rationale:\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{enumerate\}}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item The semantic meaning is codified in (onto)logical representations;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item Keeping agents from referring to each others representation therefore requires transcription between representations;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item A solution where each agent needs to implement one transcription component between its own representation and each of its interoperating peer, increases complexity;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item Encapsulating the transcription into an alignment-based intermediary component results in less communication complexity and relieves the agents from development and maintenance of local wrappers;}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{enumerate\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Implications:\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{enumerate\}}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item A mediator creates representational transparency between communicating agents, keeping agents from using each others representations;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item This enables independent development of the individual agent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s semantic meaning;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item The need to enforce a canonical semantic representation, viz. semantic homogeneity, expires, allowing semantic heterogeneity to become the norm;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item Each agent can reuse its semantic bridgehead in any other interoperation;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item Data transcription logic can become a generic service provided by the communication infrastructure;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item Each agent can communicate with any other agent in its own native semantic representation.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{enumerate\}  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{mmdp\}}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In this reading a mediator encapsulates how a pair of agents represent their semantic meaning and provides for a generic transcription logic to mediate between native semantic representations. However, one paramount issue must be resolved by the transcription logic of the mediator, as follows.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![Semantic mediation encapsulates how agents exchange semantic meaning. It implements a generic transcription service between the particular representations of data between both agents. It depends only on the representations of the semantic meaning from both agents (ontologies) and the alignment that holds between them.][def:RTMediation]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We have seen in the previous sections that a correspondence assures the semantic validity between the different semantic meanings of both agents. It can do so by token of the broad correspondence relations that can be specified, both for the conceptual and the value differences that may exist between them. Unfortunately, this is in shear contrast with the fact that a transcription can only replace one term for another, which basically implies that an equivalence relation holds between both terms. As can be seen from the correspondence relation, this is not necessarily true. In [@Brandt2018b], we make a distinction between a naive transcription, which ignores this inconsistency, and a semantic valid transcription that can establish under what conditions this inconsistency does not produce invalid semantics. We show that these conditions rely on logical constructs only and, consequently, are independent on the actual ontologies that apply. We have formulated these logical constructs as rules that generically apply for any transcription. Unfortunately, a set of conditions remain for which a semantic valid transcription cannot be guaranteed, either due to an incomplete alignment or to (onto)logical incorrect correspondences. It follows that a semantic mediation service must provide for options about the resolution for these remaining issues. We suggest at least the following options: Firstly, as run-time options we consider (i) a means to fall-back to the application of naive transcriptions and continue the data exchange, or (ii) to raise a Transcription Error and refrain from data exchange. Both represent necessary service implementations that might satisfy scenarios that have either less or more stringent semantic demands. Secondly, as design-time option, it serves as a necessary tool to generate an exhaustive list of shortcomings of the transcription as a result of the current ontologies and alignment. Such list will provide the semantics engineer with sufficient information to adapt the alignment, or introduce modifications to one or both of the semantic bridgeheads in order to remove transcription issues that are considered vital to the business. Finally, the third option is to try to resolve the transcription issue by starting a dialogue-based semantic reconciliation process in run-time with the aim to improve upon the shortcomings of the current alignment. Despite our insistence on the need for a human to author the genuine understanding, it might still be worthwhile to have the system meticulously, consistently and methodologically negotiate logical and ontological constructs in order to find additional correspondences [@Diggelen:2007vd].}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- page additions -->}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:RTMediation]: src\\images\\RunTimeMediation.png \{#fig:rt-mediation width=75%\} }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}