{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This paradigm claims that a separate semantic concern is redundant, since the semantics of each of the models can already be found in their meta-model. Although this is a valid observation for all lower-layered models, it remains abundantly clear that such a meta-model is characteristically unavailable for the top-level model for otherwise it wouldn't be the top-level model. One could argue that the required grounding for the top-level model can be found in descriptive documents, e.g., requirements or vocabularies. Nevertheless, we consider this a poor-men's substitute when it comes to the genuine consolidation of the sIOP concerns. \line \line }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 > EG: When you say "We propose to replace the models from the OMG-MOF with ontologies, for the latter are more accurate when it comes to semantics.", do you mean here: conceptually using ontologies rather than models ? Are you also referring to the technical stack associated with ontologies ? There are technologies in the MDE space that probably could also make the job (DSL, model transformation), especially when combined with graph technology. \line > PB: Valid argument, needs to be included. Response: Any MDA approach to sIOP requires that collaborative software agents share a model. This is contradicting concern 3.1. Without such shared model, no transformation can achieve sIOP. Hence, the semantic silo remains. Naturally, if the implications of a semantic silo are acceptable, the MDA approach may show very effective.}}