{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Discuss the following papers:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. M. B. Almeida, C. P. Pessanha, and R. Barcelos, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Information Architecture for Organizations: An Ontological Approach,\u8221\'94 in Ontology in Information Science, C. Thomas, Ed. IntechOpen, 2018, pp. 1\endash 27.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. S. Yang, J. Guo, and R. Wei, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Semantic interoperability with heterogeneous information systems on the internet through automatic tabular document exchange,\u8221\'94 Inf. Syst., vol. 69, pp. 195\endash 217, Sep. 2017.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. U. A\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u223\'DFmann, S. Zschaler, and G. Wagner, \u8220\'93Ontologies, Meta-models, and the Model-Driven Paradigm,\u8221\'94 in Ontologies for Software Engineering and Software Technology, C. Calero, F. Ruiz, and M. Piattini, Eds. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2006, pp. 249\endash 273.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. C. Atkinson and T. K\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u252\'FChne, \u8220\'93The Essence of Multilevel Metamodeling,\u8221\'94 LNCS, vol. 2185, pp. 19\endash 33, 2001.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. H. Carvalho e Silva, R. de Cassia Cordeiro de Castro, M. J. Negreiros Gomes, and A. Salles Garcia, Well-Founded IT Architecture Ontology: An Approach from a Service Continuity Perspective, vol. 294. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2012.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. R. Carraretto, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Separating Ontological and Informational Concerns : A Model-driven Approach for Conceptual Modeling,\u8221\'94 Federal University of Esp\u237\'EDrito Santo, 2012.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. C. L. B. Azevedo, M. E. Iacob, J. P. A. Almeida, M. J. van Sinderen, L. F. Pires, and G. Guizzardi, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Modeling resources and capabilities in enterprise architecture: A well-founded ontology-based proposal for ArchiMate,\u8221\'94 Inf. Syst., vol. 54, pp. 235\endash 262, 2015.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. M. B. Almeida, C. P. Pessanha, and R. Barcelos, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Information Architecture for Organizations: An Ontological Approach,\u8221\'94 in Ontology in Information Science, C. Thomas, Ed. IntechOpen, 2018, pp. 1\endash 27.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. D. Gasevic, D. Djuric, and V. Devedzic, Eds., Model Driven Architecture and Ontology Development. Springer Berlin Heidelberg New York, 2006. Particularly Part II: The Model Driven Architecture and Ontologies}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. G\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u246\'F6tz, S., Beckel, C., Heer, T., & Wehrle, K. (2008). ADAPT: A semantics-oriented protocol architecture. Lecture Notes in Computer Science (Including Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5343 LNCS, 287\endash 292. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-92157-8-27}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Zhou, L., Cheatham, M., Krisnadhi, A., & Hitzler, P. (2018). A Complex Alignment Benchmark: GeoLink Dataset. In D. Vrandecic, K. Bontcheva, M. C. Su\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u225\'E1rez-Figueroa, V. Presutti, I. Celino, M. Sabou, \u8230\'85 E. Simperl (Eds.), The 17th International Semantic Web Conference, ISWC 2018 (pp. 273\endash 288). Monterey, CA, USA: Springer Nature Switzerland AG. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00668-6_17}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. K\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u252\'FChne, T. (2018). Unifying nominal and structural typing. Software and Systems Modeling, 1\endash 15. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10270-018-0660-y}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Fahad, M., Moalla, N., & Bouras, A. (2012). Detection and resolution of semantic inconsistency and redundancy in an automatic ontology merging system. Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, 39(2), 535\endash 557. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10844-012-0202-y}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Renner, S. A., Scarano, J. G., & Rosenthal, A. S. (1996). Data interoperability: Standardization or Mediation. 1st IEEE Metadata Conference, 1\endash 8.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Pagano, P., Candela, L., Castelli, D., & Paolucci, M. (2013). Data Interoperability. In Data Science Journal (Vol. 12, pp. GRDI19\endash GRDI25). https://doi.org/10.2481/dsj.GRDI-004}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Wilkinson, M. D., Dumontier, M., e.a. (2016). Comment: The FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship. Scientific Data, 3, 1\endash 9. https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}