{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Apart from this strict semiotics notion, semantics are also influenced by philosophy and need consensus on the question \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93when are we committed to the existence of certain entities?\u8221\'94. It is relevant to acknowledge that humans maintain assumptions and background knowledge, both of which impact the semeiosis and, hence, semantics. This is where the conceptualisation plays an important role as frame of reference to our understanding, also denoted as the *ontological commitment*. }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F6D6DA31-61B8-4E61-BFE9-31B9D1C9B846"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Consider the following classical sentences}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 :}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Sentence 1: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the king of France is bald\u8221\'94. This sentence has got a useful meaning, being that in case of a king of France, the dear fellow is as bald as a coot. We did not say *that* a king of France exists, nor *that* bald men exist; we only used these two phrases to *refer* to things that might or might not exist. Hence, we do not need to commit to the existence of a king of France, nor to the existence of bald men, before we can formulate the sentence that *if* there is a king of France, he must be bald. Still, and despite being a meaningful sentence, \u8220\'93the king of France\u8221\'94 does not refer to something (as France is a republic), and therefore we cannot render the truth of the sentence.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Sentence 2: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the species *leo* (lions) is extinct\u8221\'94. Despite the similarity with the linguistic structure of the previous sentence, in this case we do need to commit to the existence of the species leo. The reason for this is that we do not imply here something about one individual but about something that many individuals have in common, i.e., that which defines an entity as member of the leo species. Without accepting that \u8220\'93there is something\u8221\'94 that we consider characteristic of the species of leo and leo alone, we defy the group as a whole, i.e., the universal type that each of them instantiates. And if we defy the existence of the universal type, we defy that \u8220\'93there is something\u8221\'94. But if we defy that \u8220\'93there is something\u8221\'94, it would be nonsense to even speak about any of its qualities, in this case extinction. Therefore, by defying the existence of the species, we defy the meaning of the sentence itself. We therefore are forced to commit to the existence of the species.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The contrast exemplified by these sentences shows that only when we commit to something (here \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the species *leo*\u8221\'94), the theory that we propose (here \u8220\'93is extinct\u8221\'94) can *refer* to that something in order to *establish its validity*; clearly, in our world the theory is invalid, i.e., renders `False`, given the many counter examples of lions being alive. We consider this the philosophical cornerstone for semantics: we can assess the semantic validity of any proposition if and only if the underlying ontological commitment can be referred to. Furthermore, any assessment towards semantic interoperability of two semantic theories cannot be made without an assessment of the similarity between their underlying ontological commitments. Note, however, that \u8220\'93We look to (\u8230\'85) Ontology not in order to know *what there is*, but in order to know what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, *says* there is\u8221\'94 [@Quine:1953er].   }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}