{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Once we have established a conceptualisation, it needs a representation because, despite being a mathematical representation, the sets and individuals in the DoI remain nameless. It is necessary to represent them in a (pair of) model(s) that is tangible, computational and a distinct artifact in order for the software agent to use it, and eventually, make comparisons with the semantic artifact of the peer software agent. The model that represents a conceptualisation is denoted a *conceptual model*. The conceptual model that describes semantics best is a model that is as faithful to reality as possible. This begs the question about the nature of a conceptual model at the one hand, and that of faithfulness at the other. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Faithfulness}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 To start with the latter and as indicated in \\cref\{fig:semiotic-triangles\}(b), we equate faithfulness with trueness between the representation and the entity in reality. Since this aspect is a characteristic of an indirect relationship, it can only emerge as a result of the adequacy and correctness characteristics in that same Figure. Adequacy concerns the quality of the abstraction, which we do not address here. Correctness concerns the quality of the representation, and in this section we show how differences can emerge between the conceptualisation and the model when constructing the latter from the former.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In literature, four construct issues are considered between a conceptualisations and its representation in a model, depicted in \\cref\{fig:construct-issues\}. An exhaustive treatment can be found in [@Guizzardi:2005vt], see also [@CarvalhoeSilva2012; or @Azevedo2015].}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![Four different types of construction issues that come with formal semantics. Which one is more clear: (a)[@CarvalhoeSilva2012] or (b) [@Azevedo2015]?][def:constructissues] }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Semantic accuracy improves when minimising the four construct issues:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Construct overload}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 non-lucidity}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , emerges when the interpretation function maps an element from the abstract syntax onto more than one element (individual, subset) from the conceptualisation: One token can mean more than one thing, e.g., $\\CMcal\{I\}\\left(\\text\{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93bank\u8221\'94\}\\right) = \\left\\\{ \\, \\text\{[|S], [|F], [|E]\} \\, \\right\\\}$, where [|S] stands for sofa, [|F] for a financial institute, and [|E] for a rising edge;}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Construct excess}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 unsoundness}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , represents an abstract syntax element that does not map onto an element from the conceptualisation: One token does not have a meaning at all, $\\CMcal\{I\}\\left(\\text\{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93pf\\^.h\u8221\'94\}\\right) = \\text\{[|$\\}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 bot$}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]\}$, where the *falsum* concept ([|$\\bot$]) denotes the empty set (the valuation of which is always False);}
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Construct redundancy}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 non-laconicity}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , occurs when more than one abstract syntax element can be used to represent an element from the conceptualisation: More tokens mean the same, e.g., $\\CMcal\{I\}\\left(\\text\{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93xx?\u8221\'94\}\\right) = \\text\{[|zz?] \}$ and $\\CMcal\{I\}\\left(\\text\{\u8220\'93yy?\u8221\'94\}\\right) = \\text\{[|zz?]\}$;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Construct deficit}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 incompleteness}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , specifies the situation where a conceptual element does not map onto a token: It is impossible to express a concept because the language has no token for it, e.g., $\\CMcal\{I\}^\{-1\}\\left(\\text\{[|c]\}\\right) = \\text\{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93\\quad\u8221\'94\}$, with $c$ some conceptual element and token \u8220\'93\\quad\u8221\'94 intentionally left blank.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The best representation of a conceptualisation, then, is a model that is lucid, sound, laconic and complete, i.e., the subjectivation/representation mapping is isomorphic. This is difficult to achieve, and due to the complete, accurate and complementary categories of how it carves-out the DoI, using an ontological commitment of the modelling language proves a useful tool in that }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://60E7E5A6-42B9-44F8-A941-CFEE09B01D42"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 respect}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .   }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Models, languages and ontologies}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In contemporary architectural paradigms, models are being used as first class citizens to the architectures, MDA, IEEE-1471 and ISP RM/ODP alike. It is therefore imperative to decide upon the major characteristics of a model. A in-depth treatise of models, meta-models, modelling languages and ontologies can be found in }{\f0\fs24 [@Henderson-Sellers2012], where the authors identify 6 modes of a model, derived from three dichotomies}{\f0\fs24\i0 : the type vs. token modes, the forward- vs. backward-looking modes, and the ontological vs. linguistic modes, as follows.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Type models represent different categories that exist in the modelled world, whilst token models represent the individuals from the modelling world that are of interest. This distinction essentially represent the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 universals -- particulars}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  dichotomy as identified in the ontological square (refer to \\cref\{fig:onto-square-and-sextet\}). As a result, the relationship that is instantiated with its modelled world by a type model is an }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relationship, while for a token model this is an }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 equivalence}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relationship;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * The distinction between descriptive and prescriptive models is broadly accepted, where a prescriptive model is used to }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 specify}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  its subject, and a descriptive model is used to }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 describe}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  its subject. As explained by [@Gonzalez-Perez2007], a specification model generally takes a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 forward-looking}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  role, specifying }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 how the subject is supposed to be}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . A descriptive model, on the other hand, generally takes a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 backward-looking}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  role and addresses the subject as it currently is, or once has been. We observe that the characteristics of the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 refers-to}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation become declarative for a forward-looking model whereas they become descriptive for a backward-looking model. Therefore, the refers-to relation is a causal relation, the direction of which is dependent on the model\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s characteristic. This is consequential for the location of the truth of a model: For forward-looking models their truth lies in their meta-models. Mutatis mutandis, the truth for backward-looking models lies in the entities they describe. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * The distinction between ontological and linguistic mode of a model was first coined by [@Atkinson:2001kl], often refers to meta-models and ontologies, and essentially is about the various interpretations of the instance-of relation. Linguistic meta-modelling assumes OMG\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s four layer MOF hierarchy; for each of the adjacent pair of layers the meta layer is considered to model the types that the lower layer can apply in its own model. Adjacent layers are therefore connected though a type-instance relationship, denoted as }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 linguistic instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  but often relabelled }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 conforms-to}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  in order to prevent ambiguities by overloading the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  label. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 An ontology is considered a backward-looking model, which describes almost always a domain of interest as opposed to systems, is represented as computational artefact that carries an open-world assumption as opposed of }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 we summarise the distinction between ontologies and (forward-looking) models in \\cref\{tab:onto-versus-model\}.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Subject               Ontology                                      forward-looking model}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ------------------ -------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Logical assumption   Open world assumption (OWA)                    Closed world assumption (CWA)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Source of truth      Reality                                        Meta-model}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                                     rows.}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0    : Here's the caption. It, too, may span}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 multiple lines. }
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As already indicated in \\cref\{ontological-commitment\}, the ontological commitment for the modelling languages that is used in contemporary architecture standards is   }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Explain: difference between ontologies and models}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     i. Models lack an elaborate ontological commitment, domain ontologies naturally evolve on foundational ontologies (that express an ontological commitment)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     ii. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 For prescriptive models, truth lies in meta-models}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (good for deterministic behaviour); ontologies are }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 descriptive models for which the truth lies in reality}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (good for semantics)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     iii. ontologies have open world assumption (semantic under-specification), models have closed world assumption (data remain consistent, good for performance)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     iv. Models specify systems, ontologies conceptualise reality (entities) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Try to also connect the onto/model distinction with above principles }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Induced problem: from OWA (domain ontologies) to CWA (information/data models), viz. how to get closure?}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Principle: use domain and business ontologies for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93computational independent\u8221\'94-ish models [@A\u223\'DFmann2006]}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Bridge descriptive --> prescriptive models by grounding all prescriptive model elements with concepts from descriptive model (see e.g. \\cref\{fig:OntosInMDE\}).}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In the remainder of this text we will refer to the formulation of the reference conceptualisation as a *conceptual model*.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![The use of ontologies in MDA, from [@A\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u223\'DFmann2006]][def:ontoMDA]}
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- page additions -->}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:ontoMDA]: src\\images\\OntosInMDE.png \{#fig:OntosInMDE  width=568px height=346px\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:constructissues]: src\\images\\ConstructIssues.png \{#fig:construct-issues  width=533px height=210px\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}