{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In contemporary architectural paradigms, models are being used as first class citizens to the architectures, MDA, IEEE-1471 and ISP RM/ODP alike. It is therefore imperative to decide upon the major characteristics of a model. A in-depth treatise of models, meta-models, modelling languages and ontologies can be found in [@Henderson-Sellers2012], where the authors identify 6 modes of a model, derived from three dichotomies: the type vs. token modes, the forward- vs. backward-looking modes, and the ontological vs. linguistic modes, as follows.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Type models represent different categories that exist in the modelled world, whilst token models represent the individuals from the modelling world that are of interest. This distinction essentially represent the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 universals -- particulars}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  dichotomy as identified in the ontological square (refer to \\cref\{fig:onto-square-and-sextet\}). As a result, the relationship that is instantiated with its modelled world by a type model is an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relationship, while for a token model this is an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 equivalence}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relationship;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * The distinction between descriptive and prescriptive models is broadly accepted, where a prescriptive model is used to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 specify}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  its subject, and a descriptive model is used to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 describe}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  its subject. As explained by [@Gonzalez-Perez2007], a specification model generally takes a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 forward-looking}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  role, specifying how the subject is supposed to be. A descriptive model, on the other hand, generally takes a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 backward-looking}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  role and addresses the subject as it currently is, or once has been. We observe that the characteristics of the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 refers-to}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation become declarative for a forward-looking model whereas they become descriptive for a backward-looking model. Therefore, the refers-to relation is a causal relation, the direction of which is dependent on the model\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s characteristic. This is consequential for the location of the truth of a model: For forward-looking models their truth lies in their meta-models. Mutatis mutandis, the truth for backward-looking models lies in the entities they describe. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * The distinction between ontological and linguistic mode of a modelling was first coined by [@Atkinson2003]. The distinction often refers to meta-models and ontologies. Essentially, it is about the confusion that emerges between relationships that model }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relations (a particular tree that gives rise to a universal Tree), }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 categorisation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relations (one or more criteria determine the group an individual belongs to, e.g., evergreens versus deciduous trees) and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 generalisation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relations (a taxonomic hierarchy, e.g., in the Linnaean system of classification an oak belongs to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 family:Fagaceae}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 order:Fagales, subclass:Hamamelididae}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , etc., up to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 kingdom:Plantae}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). Linguistic meta-modelling assumes OMG\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s four layer MOF hierarchy; for each of the adjacent pair of layers the meta layer is considered to model the types that the lower layer can apply in its own model. Adjacent layers are therefore connected though a type-instance relationship, denoted as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 linguistic instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  but better relabelled }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 conforms-to}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [@Bezivin2004; Favre2004a] in order to prevent ambiguities by overloading the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  label. Contrarily, ontological meta-modelling acknowledges only one single genuine }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relationship between the universals and their individuals. At the DoI, the conceptualisation also recognises subsets of supersets, which translates to the generalisation relationship [@Kuhne2006]. Although the author clearly identifies in [@Atkinson2003; and @Atkinson2011] the necessity for both modes of modelling, the method of their integration is not without issues [@Henderson-Sellers2012]. We follow the latter in their method of integrating both modelling modes.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 An ontology is considered a backward-looking model, which describes almost always a domain of interest as opposed to systems or components thereof. We summarise the distinction between ontologies and (forward-looking) models in \\cref\{tab:onto-versus-model\}.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Subject              Ontology                                          Model}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Type vs. tokens mode The main design is a type mode, carrying concepts Type mode and token mode can be applied independently }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      and their relations in terms of Universals.       from each other, or merged into one model as well.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      Inclusion of individuals is very well possible, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      providing for a token mode as well.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Prescriptive vs.     Mainly backward looking                           Mainly forward looking. Backward looking models often }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 descriptive mode                                                       apply a MOF-oriented ontological commitment or similar.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Ontological vs.      Ontological modelling.                            Mainly linguistic modelling.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 linguistic mode      }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Logical assumption   Open world assumption (OWA) maintains a           Closed world assumption (CWA) maintains data consistency}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      semantic under-specification                      and query performance}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Source of truth      Reality                                           Meta-model}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Focus                Explanatory & understanding                       Constructive & realisation  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Type of Typing       Subtyping, a.k.a. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93descriptive typing\u8221\'94            \u8220\'93Nominal typing\u8221\'94, explicit typing relationships between }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\cite\{Kuhne2018\}, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 i.e., membership of an}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0           individuals and their types. Formally:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      instance to type T is only dependent on whether   $\\forall x : (x.type = T) \\to T.\\iota(x)$}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 or not it }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 has the required properties. Formally:  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      $T.\\epsilon = \\set\{x|T.\\iota(x)\}$}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Constrain purpose    Axioms constrain the possible interpretations,    Constraints enforce integrity of the data, and are used }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      and scopw the automated reasoning.                to optimise processing performance}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Objects of interest  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The categories of being which are assumed to    }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0   It is the goal of the information level to define one }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 exist in a certain domain independently of   }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0      among the many possible structures of propositions }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                      }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 particular information demands               }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0      (information) about a domain and to characterise a }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0                                                                        }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 certain information demand.}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0    : The main differences between an ontology and a (forward-looking) model. \{tab:onto-versus-model\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We have already indicated in \\cref\{ontological-commitment\} the importance of the ontological commitment for the modelling language. Contemporary modelling frameworks yield meta-models that have a clear engineering focus which is very suitable for forward-looking, prescriptive (system) models. At the same time, these ontological commitments fall short for backward-looking, descriptive models. We consider domain ontologies, which naturally evolve on foundational ontologies (that express an ontological commitment), a necessary component to faithfully describe the domain of interpretation and formally represent the domain of interest. It is in the interest of the }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Explain: difference between ontologies and models}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     i. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 Models lack an elaborate ontological commitment, domain ontologies naturally evolve on foundational ontologies (that express an ontological commitment)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     ii. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 For prescriptive models, truth lies in meta-models}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (good for deterministic behaviour); ontologies are }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 descriptive models for which the truth lies in reality}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (good for semantics)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     iii. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 ontologies have open world assumption (semantic under-specification), models have closed world assumption (data remain consistent, good for performance)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     iv. Models specify systems, ontologies conceptualise reality (entities) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Try to also connect the onto/model distinction with above principles }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Induced problem: from OWA (domain ontologies) to CWA (information/data models), viz. how to get closure?}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Principle: use domain and business ontologies for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93computational independent\u8221\'94-ish models [@A\u223\'DFmann2006]}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Bridge descriptive --> prescriptive models by grounding all prescriptive model elements with concepts from descriptive model (see e.g. \\cref\{fig:OntosInMDE\}).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     v. Different aggregation levels of ASM: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     vi. Differentiate between an information model with \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93semantic meaning\u8221\'94 from the process model with \u8220\'93pragmatic meaning\u8221\'94, and maintain their semantic coherence by having one ontology available as their single unique reference (either formally the domain of interpretation for $\\int_d$ and $\\int_p$, or pragmatically, using one single ontology as conceptual model). }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In the remainder of this text we will refer to the formulation of the reference conceptualisation as a *conceptual model*.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![The use of ontologies in MDA, from [@A\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u223\'DFmann2006]][def:ontoMDA]}
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- page additions -->}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:ontoMDA]: src\\images\\OntosInMDE.png \{#fig:OntosInMDE  width=568px height=346px\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:constructissues]: src\\images\\ConstructIssues.png \{#fig:construct-issues  width=533px height=210px\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}