{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The applications that we consider are about a specific part of reality. Reality refers to everything out there that we can somehow represent in tokens, e.g., a physical, administrative, virtual or even a mythical reality. Applications can only engage in conversation with each other if their realities that each of them is concerned with, overlap. Such overlap, however, can vary in at least two ways:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * Variations in the *Universe of Discourse* (UoD) (see \\cref\{universe-of-discourse-and-state-of-affairs\}). Any collaboration becomes impossible when addressing different subjects. The situation where a partial overlap exists can be both dangerous as well as profitable. It can show dangerous when the border between the overlapping and disjunct parts is not clear, especially when tokens refer to entities that are divided by the }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E0953998-F036-47D4-8BEB-FA3EF64D00DF"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 border}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Here the examples from \\cref\{universe-of-discourse-and-state-of-affairs\} apply about the different *germane entities* that are considered in the shared reality.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * When communicating peers do not share an identical cognitive orientation and maintain a different \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Weltanschauung\u8217\'92, their realities differ in terms of *what there is* (see \\cref\{philosophical-evidence\}). As a result, although they may point to the same thing in reality, e.g., a box on the table, they can mean a very different thing, e.g., the location on the table versus the box itself, or even the cat in the box, dead and alive.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  het type dingen dat er -- ongeacht de UoD -- in de wereld bestaat, het zgn. *Wereldbeeld* of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Weltanschauung\u8217\'92. Wanneer hier tussen de beide gesprekspartners geen overlap bestaat, zullen beide niet allen op verschillende wijze dezelfde UoD conceptualiseren, maar bestaat er tevens geen gezamenlijk kader waarbinnen tot begripsuitwisseling kan worden gekomen. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Omdat het in de praktijk niet erg zinvol is samenwerking te bewerkstelligen omtrent verschillende zaken, en omdat we niet filosofisch radicaal skeptisch zijn, doen we de aanname dat in ons onderzoek deze interoperabiliteitsproblemen niet aan de orde zullen zijn.}}