{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Temporal scalability** [@Schlieder:2010uh] characterises the fact that semantics change over time due to semantic and cultural ageing. For instance, the expression \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I\u8217\'92ll save it in my cloud\u8221\'94 was considered nonsense, or at best an empty statement until ICT cloud storage was invented. Other examples include new insights that lead to the introduction of an intermediate category between two existing ones; introduction of new laws or modified business processes, giving rise to modification of definitions. Clearly, this impacts sIOP since conversation partners can ground the term used historically different. Hence, capabilities to read and interpret the concepts have to persist, e.g., when population of classes with instances change over time, or when queries or inferences change their use of instances or classes. Since semantics are subject to evolution, it should at least be considered a necessary feature for the *governance* of sIOP. For instance, stock prices listed at Frankfurt stock exchange dropped almost by 50% during the year turnover from 1998 to 1999. This had nothing to do with the state of the world during those days, but was due to the Europe currency change to Euros instead. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This fault is similar to instance unification, where absence to acknowledge temporal scalability essentially merges time periods as opposed to merging state of affairs as is implied by instance unification.}}