{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Identity overload** is identical to term overloading, except that it occurs at the instance level: Depending on the context of use, a term can correctly identify one, or incorrectly many individuals. For example, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93John\u8221\'94 might proof unique and hence sufficient in our family, but insufficiently unique to identify one single person in the city. For this exact reason, the administrative social security number has been invented: a convention that by definition provides the ability to point to one single inhabitant within a nation. Applying a SSN prevents the occurrence of identity overloading.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Instance unification** [@Hitzler:2010uc] represents the converse of identity overload in that two different named instances in fact represent identical individuals. Again, one can identify a person by use of his/her social security number, or by use of his/her name. [@Nousak:2002tb] defines this as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93**Data Uniqueness** : Data element is unique -- there are no duplicate values.\u8221\'94. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Foundational to both instance unification and identity overloading is the absence of, or difference in selection of, a valid **principle of identity**, defined by [@Guizzardi:2005vt, p98] as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93(principle that) supports the judgement whether two particulars are the same, i.e., in which circumstances the identity relation holds.\u8221\'94. Incorrect application of this principle results in said ambiguity in the identification of individuals. This implies data incompleteness, or the occurrence of duplicates with the risk of operating on the wrong individual. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Hieraan gerelateerd is het oneigenlijk gebruik van een principle of identity. Hierbij wordt voor de identificatie van individuen \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91b\u8217\'92 van concept \u8216\'91B\u8217\'92 ten onrechte gebruik gemaakt wordt van de identificatie van individuen \u8216\'91a\u8217\'92 van een gerelateerd concept \u8216\'91A\u8217\'92. Omdat er vanuit een bepaald gebruiksperspectief een vaste relatie bestaat tussen concept \u8216\'91A\u8217\'92 en het gewenste concept \u8216\'91B\u8217\'92, wordt de indentificatiemethode tbv \u8216\'91a\u8217\'92 gemakshalve ook voor het gewenste individu \u8216\'91b\u8217\'92 gebruikt. Binnen het gebruiksperspectief wordt dan ten onrechte aangenomen dat die relatie constant blijft, er over tijd geen conflicterende concepten worden toegevoegd, en de opgeslagen gegevens niet buiten de eigen specifieke toepassing wordt gebruikt. Omdat in ieder geval de laatste premisse bij interoperabiliteit niet het geval zal zijn, zal dat onherroepelijk tot een sIOP probleem leiden.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Therefore, it is considered a necessary feature for sIOP to adapt the principle of identity to a mechanism that proves sufficient for the recipient.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}