{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-17683\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0   *Background:* Absence of access-and-play semantic interoperability (sIOP) is a big hurdle to contemporary IT-based business collaboration. Despite achievements on sIOP, standardising domain semantics experiences challenges in time-to-market, evolution, and scalability in environments where significant semantic variety exists. Progress towards a universal infrastructural support for sIOP remains hampered by solutions that focus on the local domain only. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D82F82D3-50FE-4C50-9DE5-E30A6ADE85D9"}}{\fldrslt Real-world semantics in software are necessarily reduced to the reciprocity between data and data processing. Data exchange breaks that reciprocity, failing sIOP. sIOP demands re-establishing a valid reciprocity between the consumer agent\'92s data processing and the producer agent\'92s data, without dependency on semantic standards.}} For access-and-play sIOP, the effort of the human in the loop has to be reduced. This is a matter of software architecture.       \
  \
  *Objective:* The objective of our study is to identify and formulate the fundamental demands on sIOP, to derive its supporting architectural principles, and their embedding in contemporary architectures.    \
  \
  *Method:* We assess the problems and identify requirements on sIOP, two of which demanding a human in the loop. We develop design principles for interoperability between the agents\'92 semantics. We evaluate these principles by designing an ISO-42010 Architecture {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E6B77C9A-69AA-4C8C-A142-C551D26C377D"}}{\fldrslt Viewpoint and View on sIOP}}.   \
  \
  *Results:* We show that loosely coupled semantics, semantic alignments, and accountability about the applied ontological commitment are the cornerstones to sIOP. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8CD85D2F-BB55-403E-981E-8FDEA97F5E6B"}}{\fldrslt supporting principles}} are: taking responsibility for your data semantics; an explicit ontological commitment; separating semantics from communication; aligning internal and external semantics of exchanged data; and, encapsulating how agents exchange semantics. The resulting Architecture Viewpoint and View on sIOP, including semantic mediation, consolidates sIOP in contemporary architectural paradigms.  \
  \
  *Conclusions:* Our principles address architectural shortcomings for an access-and-play sIOP capability. Conditions supporting sIOP have to be realised in advance of the data exchange, resulting in loosely coupled semantics that are re-usable for different business collaborations, even those that are not anticipated for. This paper intends to support research into domain-independent standardised semantic services and APIs, to be adopted and embedded into the communication infrastructure between software agents.   }