{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-17683\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0   Collaboration among business stakeholders occurs within chains and networks that are considerably more dynamic than in the past. Parties come and go depending on opportunities and threats in their domain of application. Additionally, communication essential for collaboration is increasingly shifting from the physical to the digital domain. This necessitates solutions for dynamic semantic interoperability (sIOP) within the digital realm.\
  \
  Dynamic sIOP is a variation of sIOP that addresses semantically heterogeneous environments without the need for upfront sharing of common semantics or knowledge of participating stakeholders. In the field of ICT, the primary challenge is to effectively reconcile, in (near) real-time, the differences in real-world semantics (RWS) referred to by various applications. Since software systems are unable to genuinely understand RWS, bridging semantic heterogeneity requires a human-in-the-loop. Also, any solution towards that bridge should not be invented locally and reinvented again and again, but rather is common functionality that can and should become available as infrastructural services. Our research aims to enhance both application and infrastructure by introducing a dynamic sIOP capability, whilst minimising the human-in-the-loop to the bare essentials.  \
  \
  Our approach is to identify the essential functional concerns for such dynamic sIOP capability, and to devise design principles (DPs) to their resolution. We operationalise these DPs by showing that their joint implementation results in infrastructural services that are agnostic towards the specific RWS of the application domain while enabling applications to communicate and come to an agreement about domain semantics.  \
  \
  The benefits of such dynamic sIOP capability over existing solutions towards sIOP lie in software applications\'92 ability to converse 
\f1 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f2\i about
\f1\i0 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f0  the domain semantics in real time whenever the need arises, rather than being constrained to communicate over a fixed set of semantics only. This is a direct result of separating the semantic concerns from the communication concerns, lifting the semantic representation from the communication syntax. And, by remaining agnostic to domain semantics and solely applying generic (infrastructural) services, this approach allows for a standardisation initiative on top of any communication infrastructure. This also removes the differentiation between inter- and intra-domain sIOP; for arbitrary applications to be eligible to engage in collaboration, they need only share a specific part of reality.  \
  }